<h1>Weight Watchers Diet</h1>
    <p><h3>Who are Weight Watchers?</h3>
Weight Watchers was founded by Jean Nidetch in 1963 out of her Queens, New York home.
In the 90s, it introduced a points-based system that assigned values to foods and drinks based on their fiber, fat and calorie contents.

Weight Watchers has overhauled the points-based system several times over the years, most recently launching the SmartPoints system in 2015.


<h4>The SmartPoints System</h4>
SmartPoints assigns different point values to foods based on factors such as their calorie, fat, protein and sugar contents.
When beginning the program, each dieter is given a set amount of daily points based on personal data like their height, age, gender and weight-loss goals.
Although no foods are off limits, dieters must stay below their set daily points to reach their desired weight.
Healthier foods are lower in points than unhealthy foods like candy, chips and soda.
For example, a 230-calorie, glazed-yeast donut is 10 SmartPoints, while 230 calories of yogurt topped with blueberries and granola is only 2 SmartPoints.
In 2017, Weight Watchers revamped the SmartPoints program to make it more flexible and user-friendly.
The new system, called WW Freestyle, is based on the SmartPoints system but includes over 200 foods rated zero points.
According to the Weight Watchers website, WW Freestyle makes life simpler for dieters because zero-point foods do not have to be weighed, measured or tracked, allowing more freedom when planning meals and snacks.
Zero-point foods include eggs, skinless chicken, fish, beans, tofu and non-fat plain yogurt, among many other high-protein, low-calorie foods.
Before the Freestyle program, only fruits and non-starchy vegetables were rated zero points.
Now, foods that are higher in protein receive a lower point value, while foods that are higher in sugar and saturated fat receive higher point values.
Weight Watchers new Freestyle program encourages dieters to make healthier food choices instead of basing decisions on how many points they are allotted.
</p>